udpates to oklab() (#33006)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/color_value/oklab/index.md

{{CSSRef}}

The **`oklab()`** functional notation expresses a given color in the Oklab {{glossary("color space")}}, which attempts to mimic how color is perceived by the human eye.

Oklab is a perceptual color space and is useful to:

- Transform an image to grayscale, without changing its lightness.
- Modify the saturation of colors, while keeping user perception of hue and lightness
- Create smooth and uniform gradients of colors (when interpolated manually, for example, in a {{HTMLElement("canvas")}} element).

> The `oklab()` works with a Cartesian coordinate system on the Oklab color space, the a- and b-axes. It can represent any color from the Oklab color space that is wider than RGB and includes wide-gamut and P3 colors. If you want a polar color system, chroma and hue, use {{cssxref("color_value/oklch", "oklch()")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`oklab()` works with a Cartesian coordinate system on the Oklab color space — a- and b-axes. It can represent a wider range of colors than RGB, including wide-gamut and P3 colors. If you want a polar color system, chroma and hue, use {{cssxref("color_value/oklch", "oklch()")}}.
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("Adjusting_opacity", "100%", 155)}}

### Adjusting color axes

> This example demonstrates the effects of setting the `a` and `b` values of the `oklab()` function to the ends and midpoints of the a-axis, which goes from green (`-0.4`) to red (`0.4`) and the b-axis, which goes from yellow (`-0.4`) to blue (`0.4`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates the effects of setting the `a` and `b` values of the `oklab()` function to the ends and midpoints of the a-axis and b-axis respectively. The a-axis goes from green (`-0.4`) to red (`0.4`) and the b-axis, goes from yellow (`-0.4`) to blue (`0.4`).
```

  background-color: oklab(0.5 0.4 0.4);
}
[data-color="redzero"] {
  background-color: oklab(0.5 0.4 0);
}
[data-color="redblue"] {
  background-color: oklab(0.5 0.4 -0.4);
}

/* a-axis center, variable b-axis */
[data-color="zeroyellow"] {
  background-color: oklab(0.5 0 0.4);
}
[data-color="zerozero"] {
  background-color: oklab(0.5 0 0);
}
[data-color="zeroblue"] {
  background-color: oklab(0.5 0 -0.4);
}

/* a-axis min, variable b-axis */
[data-color="greenyellow"] {
  background-color: oklab(0.5 -0.4 0.4);
}
[data-color="greenzero"] {
  background-color: oklab(0.5 -0.4 0);
}
[data-color="greenblue"] {
  background-color: oklab(0.5 -0.4 -0.4);
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("Adjusting_color_axes", "", "200")}}

The left column is at the yellow end (`-0.4`) of the b-axis and the right column is at the blue end (`0.4`). The top row displays colors at the red end of the a-axis (`-0.4`) and the bottom row is at the green end (`0.4`). The middle column and row are at the midpoints of each axis, with the middle cell being grey; it contains no red, green, yellow, or blue, with a `0` value for both axes.

### Linear gradients along the a-axis and b-axis

> This example includes linear gradients to demonstrate the progression of values of the `oklab()` function along the a-axis (from red to green) and along the b-axis (from yellow to blue). In each gradient image, one axis remains static while the other axis progresses from the low end to the high end of the axis values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example includes linear gradients to demonstrate the progression of values of the `oklab()` function along the a-axis (from red to green) and along the b-axis (from yellow to blue). In each gradient image, one axis remains static while the other axis progresses from low to high values.
```
